{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red113\green4\blue3;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c52368\c6423\c495;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww23060\viewh13860\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs64 \cf0 # PSLIB \'96 Empirical Project Database for Dynamic Scheduling
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\
PSLIB is an empirical project database for **baseline scheduling, risk analysis, and project control** within the Dynamic Scheduling (DS) framework.\
\
**Last update:** May 2026\
\
---\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs48 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 ## Citation
\f1\b0\fs26 \
\
This dataset was originally presented in the following paper, which should be cited whenever the dataset or any part of its data is used:\
\
- Batselier, J. & Vanhoucke, M. (2015).  \
  *Construction and evaluation framework for a real-life project database.*  \
  *International Journal of Project Management*, 33(3), 697\'96710.  \
  https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijproman.2014.09.004\
\
At the time of publication (2015), the database contained **52 projects**. Since then, the dataset has been substantially expanded.\
\
The updated version (December 2024) contains **203 projects**, while the current release (May 2026) contains **231 projects**.\
\
A detailed description and analysis of the expanded dataset can be found in the following books:\
\
- Vanhoucke, M. (2023). *The illusion of control: Project data, computer algorithms and human intuition for project management and control.* Springer.  \
- Vanhoucke, M. (2024). *A quest for projects with scarce resources: Seeking schedule intelligence through project data discovery.* Springer.\
\
Users are strongly encouraged to also reference these books when the extended dataset is used in full or when analyses rely on the enriched and expanded project collection. However, the 2015 journal paper remains the primary reference for the dataset.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\
---\
\

\f0\b\fs48 ## Problem Overview\

\f1\b0\fs24 \
PSLIB is an abbreviation for **\'93Dynamic Scheduling Library\'94 (DSLIB)**.\
\
The **Dynamic Scheduling (DS) framework** integrates:\
\
- Baseline scheduling  \
- Schedule risk analysis  \
- Project control  \
\
Each project file in the dataset may contain data for these three dimensions (though not always fully complete).\
\
More information on the DS framework can be found in the following books:\
\
- Vanhoucke, M. (2014). *Integrated project management and control: First comes the theory, then the practice (1st ed.).* Springer.  \
- Vanhoucke, M. (2013). *Project management with dynamic scheduling: Baseline scheduling, risk analysis and project control (2nd ed.).* Springer.  \
- Vanhoucke, M. (2016). *Integrated project management sourcebook: A technical guide to project scheduling, risk and control (1st ed.).* Springer.  \
- Vanhoucke, M. (2018). *The data-driven project manager: A statistical battle against project obstacles (1st ed.).* Springer.  \
- Vanhoucke, M. (2023). *The illusion of control: Project data, computer algorithms and human intuition for project management and control.* Springer.  \
- Vanhoucke, M. (2024). *A quest for projects with scarce resources: Seeking schedule intelligence through project data discovery.* Springer.\
- Vanhoucke, M. (2026). *Data-driven project management with Python :Optimizing schedules, simulating risk and analyzing project performance through 10 example experiments (1st ed.).* Springer.  \
\
---\
\

\f0\b\fs48 ## Download the Repository\

\f1\b0\fs24 \
The PSLIB repository contains the following materials:\
\
- **Analysis sheet (Excel):** Overview of all projects in a structured MS Excel format  \
- **Folder: Excel** \'96 Contains an Excel file for each project (extracted from ProTrack files)  \
- **Folder: ProTrack** \'96 Contains each project in ProTrack format  \
- **Folder: Project Card** \'96 Contains (for most projects) a summary card following the guidelines in Batselier & Vanhoucke (2015)\
\
---\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs48 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
## Versioning Scheme\

\f1\b0\fs24 \
Versions follow the format **vX.Y**:\
\
- **X** = major update when new projects are added\
- **Y** = minor update when only the MS Excel file is updated or an existing project is corrected\
(reset to 0 when X increases)\
\
**Note:** When a new release is published, the previous release is removed. Please always use the latest version.\
\
**Last update:** v3.0 (May 2026)\
\
Download the latest version here: \
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/mariovanhoucke/DSLIB-Dynamic-Scheduling-Empirical-Project-Library/releases/latest"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0\b \cf3 https://github.com/mariovanhoucke/DSLIB-Dynamic-Scheduling-Empirical-Project-Library/releases/latest}}\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \

\f0\b\fs48 ## Websites\

\f1\b0\fs24 \
- OR-AS data webpage: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.or-as.be/research/data"}}{\fldrslt https://www.or-as.be/research/data}}\
- University data webpage:  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.projectmanagement.ugent.be/research/data"}}{\fldrslt https://www.projectmanagement.ugent.be/research/data}} (including artificial and empirical projects)\
\
---\
\

\f0\b\fs48 ## Interested in More?\

\f1\b0\fs24 \
- Books on project management: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.or-as.be/books"}}{\fldrslt https://www.or-as.be/books}}  \
- OR&S Research page: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.or-as.be/research/"}}{\fldrslt https://www.or-as.be/research/}}\
- Free short articles: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://medium.com/@mario.vanhoucke"}}{\fldrslt https://medium.com/@mario.vanhoucke}}  }